ReadMe.txt

                           Groundwater Toolbox Tutorials
                Last Update: May 26, 2017 (Version 1.3.1 release)

     This directory contains tutorials for the USGS Groundwater Toolbox.
A short description of each tutorial, and their release dates, are given
below.

1. and 2. 'RDB_file_structure' and 'Scripting_to_import_Excel_data'
(released April 30, 2015, with version 1.1 of the GW Toolbox). These
tutorials describe two different approaches for importing data from an 
Excel file into the GW Toolbox. The first approach can be particularly
useful because of the completeness of the attribute/parameter values
that are imported with the data in the RDB format.

'RDB_file_structure' describes steps that can be taken to construct a 
USGS RDB (relational database) streamflow data file from any streamflow 
data source. The RDB data file can then be imported into the GW Toolbox. 
An example is provided that uses streamflow data stored in an Excel file. 
This tutorial uses the template file 'NWIS_discharge_01117500.rdb.'

'Scripting_to_import_Excel_data' describes steps that can be taken to use 
the Scripting Functionality of the GW Toolbox to import data stored in an 
Excel file. 

3. 'New and Updated Functionality for Hydrograph Separation with the 
Groundwater Toolbox' (released October 1, 2016, with version 1.2 of the
GW Toolbox). This tutorial describes new and updated functionality for 
hydrograph separation to analyze (1) multiple streamflow records 
simultaneously ('Batch Map' and 'Batch File' options),(2) streamflow 
records with intermittent periods of record, and (3) streamflow records 
that are less than a full calendar year in length or that extend over 
periods that are not full calendar years.

4. 'Updated Functionality for Analysis of Time-Series Data' (released
October 1, 2016, with version 1.2 of the GW Toolbox). This tutorial
describes updated methods for analysis of time-series data, including
(1) ability to work with base-flow and runoff time series generated as
output from the hydrograph-separation methods, (2) enhancements to the
existing Kendall Tau trends functionality, and (3) subsetting, splitting,
filtering and other manipulations of a time series.

5. 'Two digital filters for hydrograph separation with the Groundwater
Toolbox' (released April 15, 2017, with version 1.3 of the GW Toolbox).
This tutorial describes two digital-filtering techniques for hydro-
graph separation (the SWAT Bflow and Eckhardt approaches), approaches
for estimating parameters for the techniques, and implementation and 
use of the techniques in the GW Toolbox.

6. 'Update to the RECESS functionality to estimate a basin-wide base-
flow recession constant and master recession curve' (released April 15, 
2017, with version 1.3 of the GW Toolbox). This tutorial describes 
modifications made to the RECESS functionality, particularly to the 
generation and presentation of master recession curves.

7. 'Miscellaneous Updates' (initially released May 26, 2017, with 
version 1.3.1 of the GW Toolbox). This tutorial describes miscellaneous 
updates and enhancements to the Toolbox beginning with version 1.3.1.
Users should review this tutorial with each new release to learn
about new enhancements and updates to Toolbox functionality.




